About Jiyo Parsi

The Jiyo Parsi scheme is unique Central Sector Scheme for arresting the population decline of Parsi Community. The scheme was launched in 2013-14. The objective of the scheme is to reverse the declining trend of Parsi population by adopting a scientific protocol and structured interventions, stabilize their population and to increase the population of Parsis in India..

The scheme has three components-Medical Assistance, Health of Community and Advocacy.

a)  Medical Component: to provide financial assistance for medical treatment under standard medical protocol.

b)  Health of the Community: To motivate Parsi Couples to have more children, financial assistance would be available to couples to take care of their dependent elderly family members and children.

c)  Advocacy: Enhancing support for Parsi couples with infertility and family related concerns involve counseling sessions, outreach programmes i.e seminars, medical camps, publicity brochures, advocacy films etc. The utilization of social media networks for publicity to effectively reach eligible Parsi couples, ensuring access to the benefits of the scheme.

The Scheme will be implemented through the State Governments with the assistance of respective Parsi Institutions. Eligible Parsi couples would be provided financial assistance under the various components of the schemes through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode.The State Governments would get the necessary verification including Biometric authentication of the all beneficiaries done.

FAQs for Jiyo Parsi Scheme Portal

Q1. What is the objective of the Jiyo Parsi Scheme?
Reply:The objective of the scheme is to reverse the declining trend of Parsi population by adopting a scientific protocol and structured interventions, stabilize and increase their population in India.

Q2. What is the eligibility criterion for applying under the scheme?
Reply:The scheme is meant for the notified minority community i.e. Parsi/Zoroastrian residing in India.

Q3. Which are the benefits available under the scheme?
Reply:Medical and Health of Community assistance are available under the scheme:

(a) Medical Assistance: To deal with fertility issues, financial assistance would be provided for fertility treatment to Parsis.

(b) Health of the Community: To motivate Parsi couples to have more children, financial assistance would be available to couples to take care of their dependent elderly family members and children.

Q4. What are the income criteria to apply for Medical Assistance?
Reply:Annual family income from all sources for each of the categories would be admissible as per the following:


S.No	Annual family income from all sources	Financial assistance to be provided under the Medical component
1	 Upto Rs.15 lakh	 100%
2	 Above Rs.15 lakh upto 25 lakh	 75%
3	 Above Rs. 25 lakh upto 30 lakh	 50%

Q5. What are the income criteria to apply for Health of Community Assistance?
Reply:Assistance under this component is available to only those Parsi Couples who bear a child after the introduction of this component i.e. 2017-18 and whose annual family income from all sources is less than Rs. 15 Lakh per annum.